Adds reference article about NATS Subjects used in wasmCloud. (#634)
wasmCloud/wasmCloud.com: docs/reference/nats.md

---
title: 'NATS Subjects'
date: 2024-10-04
sidebar_position: 12 
draft: false 
---

> This reference article attempts to give a quick overview of NATS subjects used by wasmCoud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides an overview of NATS subjects used by wasmCloud.
```

## wRPC

> NATS Subjects used for wRPC communication uses the following subject pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NATS Subjects used for wRPC communication adopt the following subject pattern:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```plaintext
```

Let's make sure to denote these markdown sections with ```plaintext so they get picked up properly by formatters 😄

{lattice}.{component_id}.wrpc.{protocol_version}.{namespace}:{package}/{interface}@{version}.{function}
```

> [See RPC article for more details](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/rpc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[See the RPC page for more details](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/rpc).
```

Author: Resolved by b4551570d12304f59811dbd7eec229a3e9ef5f15

## Control Interface

> The complete Control Interface documentation can be [found here](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface), and follows the following pattern: e

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The complete Control Interface documentation can be [found here](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface), and follows the following pattern:
```

Author: Resolved by b4551570d12304f59811dbd7eec229a3e9ef5f15

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```plaintext
```

Author: Resolved in b4551570d12304f59811dbd7eec229a3e9ef5f15

| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.label.put.{host-id}| Labels | [Put label](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#put-label) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.label.del.{host-id}| Labels | [Delete label](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#delete-label) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.link.get| Queries | [Links](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#links) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.claims.get| Queries | [Claims](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#claims) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.host.get.{host-id}| Queries | [Host inventory](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#host-inventory) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.host.ping| Queries | [Ping hosts](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#ping-hosts) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.link.put| Link operations | [Put link](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#put-link) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.link.del| Link operations | [Delete link](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#delete-link) |
| wasmbus.ctl.v1.{lattice}.link.del| Link operations | [Delete link](/docs/hosts/lattice-protocols/control-interface#delete-link) |

## wadm API

> The complete wadm API documentation can be [found here](/docs/ecosystem/wadm/api) takes requests in the following format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The wadm API uses the "model" term for brevity; each model is an individual application manifest. The complete wadm API documentation can be [found here](/docs/ecosystem/wadm/api) takes requests in the following format:
```

Just adding one little preface here because "model" tends to cause confusion, and we need to remove it from our API 😢

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```plaintext
```

Author: Resolved by b4551570d12304f59811dbd7eec229a3e9ef5f15

> wadm.api.{lattice-id}.{category}.{operation}.{object}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wadm.api.{lattice}.{category}.{operation}.{object}
```

Just for consistency

Author: Resolved by b4551570d12304f59811dbd7eec229a3e9ef5f15
